# Bryn Mawr College and the M. Carey Thomas Controversy

## 

As a Bryn Mawr College alumna, I have been closely following my undergraduate college’s reexamination of how it should recognize the history and contribution of one of its past presidents, M. Carey Thomas. Having led the college from 1894 to 1922, Thomas was a leading suffragist and an avid promoter of women’s education. As part of past efforts to recognize her contribution to the college and women’s education, in general, the college named its central auditorium and one of its libraries after Thomas—Thomas Great Hall and Thomas Library, respectively. Over the course of this past academic year, however, many members of the Bryn Mawr College community have called into question this recognition because of Thomas’ known and documented racist and bigoted views. This is, of course, part of a larger trend across the country, with many colleges and universities asking tough questions about how certain forms of recognition may conflict with espoused values. 

Because I am a member of Bryn Mawr College’s D.C. alumnae group, as well as a volunteer for The Lantern Bookshop (which is mostly staffed by Bryn Mawr alumnae and has a close association with the college), I have observed and participated in many conversations about this subject over the last year. As one would expect with a subject this potentially divisive, the opinions on the subject span a range of views. While some believe Thomas’ openly racist and anti-Semitic views, and advancement of discriminatory policies, means that the buildings should be re-named, others believe that doing so is tantamount to erasing history and diminishing her promotion of women’s education and contribution to the college. I received an email only last week notifying the college community that the working group that had been formed to address this issue has concluded their analysis and put forward recommendations, which is why I decided to collect data about this subject. 

I collected two sets of data from Twitter, using the search terms “M. Carey Thomas” and “BlackatBrynMawr.” I noticed the second search term in the first data set, and I wanted to see if there were more tweets that used this phrase. I was astonished to find that the latter search term did not yield many results—in fact, given the intensity of the conversations that have animated the college and alumnae groups across the country, I was surprised that neither search term yielded a significant number of results. I’m not sure how to interpret this other than to make the general observation that Twitter has not emerged as the natural platform for members of the community to voice their perspectives on the matter.

A visualization of these data sets would reveal that more seem to be in favor of the discontinued use of “Thomas” in the daily business of the college than not, a majority of the Twitter users are concentrated on the East Coast, especially Philadelphia, and that there are a number of tweets that link to articles on the subject. It is possible that members of the community are voicing their frustration on another platform, or sharing their perspectives on the subject offline, a possibility that Noble reinforces in her discussion about black communities and Yelp in Algorithms of Oppression. If this were the only record of this event available to historians, say, several hundred years from now, it would undeniably give a distorted and false sense of the gravity of the subject and how it has animated discussion on the ground over the last year.

### Relevant Links

A link to my [data set 1](https://github.com/aahy/datastory/raw/master/data/BMCtweets.csv)

A link to my [data set 2](https://github.com/aahy/datastory/raw/master/data/BlackBMC.csv)
